docs: improve self hosted configuration documentation (#8161)
renovatebot/renovate: docs/usage/configuration-options.md

If you have any questions about the config options, or want to get help/feedback about a config, go to the [discussions tab in the Renovate repository](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/discussions) and start a new "config help" discussion.
We will do our best to answer your question(s).

## Guide to working with JSON

The Renovate documentation assumes you use a `renovate.json` file to configure the bot.
This section explains how to work with JSON.

> ### What is JSON?
> 
> JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation.
> This is a format that's used by the JavaScript programming language to create an `object`.
> You don't need to know the JavaScript programming language to use JSON though.
> 
> The JSON file is read by the Renovate bot to determine what configuration the bot should use.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I think this is too basic. Let's link to a publicly available JSON description earlier and not explain it again

Author: I've pushed a new commit that references the Mozilla MDN Web docs glossary on JSON.
We can also link to something else... 😄

### What types can I use?

> Each configuration option accepts only one type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each configuration option includes a type definition.
```

A type is a kind of data format, say a number, or a "string" of characters.

Renovate uses the following types:

| Format  | Example    |
| ------- | ---------- |
| String  | `"string"` |
| Boolean | `true`     |
| Array   | `[]`       |
| Integer | `1`        |
| Object  | `{}`       |

Renovate doesn't use `floats`, which are numbers with a decimal (`1.2.3.`).

### How read the tables

Throughout the Renovate documenation you'll find tables that describe the wanted format for a configuration option.
It can be tricky to read those tables if you're new to the JSON format, so let's go over some examples now.

### Configure a string property

A string is a sequence of characters, think of a string of yarn, with letters attached to them.
A string must be enclosed within `'` or `"` characters.
So `string` is not valid, but `'string'` or `"string"` are valid.

When configuring Renovate bot, do not use a string with numbers in it, like this: `"1"`.

Let's say that the `snorgleborf` config option has this table:

| Name    | Value  |
| ------- | ------ |
| type    | string |
| default | `null` |

You would create the following JSON:

```json
{

>   "snorgleborf": "string"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "snorgleborf": "abc123"
```

}
```

### Configure a Boolean property

> A Boolean is a logical operator.
> It can be `true` or `false`.
> Think of a Boolean as a light switch: `true` is on, and `false` is off.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Boolean property can be `true` or `false`.
```

Renovate usually uses a Boolean for binary choices: either you want something to happen or you don't.

Let's say that the `snorgleborf` config option has this table:

| Name    | Value   |
| ------- | ------- |
| type    | boolean |
| default | `false` |

You would create the following JSON:

```json
{

>   "snorgleborf": false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "snorgleborf": true
```

}
```

### Configure a array property

A array is a list of one or multiple items.

Let's say that the `snorgleborf` config option has this table:

| Name    | Value |
| ------- | ----- |
| type    | array |
| default | `[]`  |

You would create the following JSON:

> ```json
> {
>   "snorgleborf": []
> }
> ```
> 
> Note that this example is just an empty array.
> Usually a `subtype` row in the table says what type you should use within the array:
> 
> | Name    | Value  |
> | ------- | ------ |
> | type    | array  |
> | subtype | string |
> | default | `[""]` |
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```json
{
  "snorgleborf": [
    "overrideDefaultConfig",
    "separate each new item in the array with a comma"
  ]
}
```

### Configure a Integer property

> A integer is a whole number, that does not contain a comma or decimal.
> 
> | Input | Is integer |
> | ----- | ---------- |
> | `1`   | Yes        |
> | `1.2` | No         |
> | `1,2` | No         |
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Let's say that the `snorgleborf` config option has this table:

| Name    | Value   |
| ------- | ------- |
| type    | integer |
| default | `0`     |

You would create the following JSON:

```json
{
  "snorgleborf": 1
}
```

> ### Configure a Object property

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure an Object property
```

A object is created by using the `{}` characters.
A object usually contains multiple key/value pairs.

Let's say that the `snorgleborf` config option has this table:

| Name    | Value  |
| ------- | ------ |
| type    | object |
| default | `{}`   |

You would create the following JSON:

```json
{

>   "snorgleborf": {}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "snorgleborf": {
    "enabled": false
  }
```

}
```

### What does `subtype` mean?

A subtype in the configuration table specifies what type you're allowed to use within the main element.

### What does `parent` mean?

> // TODO: Add example of parent here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a config option has a `parent` defined, it means it's only allowed to configure it within an object with the parent name, such as `packageRules` or `hostRules`.
```

### What does `mergeable` mean?

> // TODO: Explain what mergeable means.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an array or object configuration option is `mergeable`, it means that values inside it will be added to any existing object or array that existed with the same name.
```

> ## addLabels

Reviewer: I think we need a divider before here

Author: I've pushed a commit that tries to add a divider.

Author: Well that was a bust, adding a horizontal rule `---` does not fix the tests. 🙃

Author: @rarkins What kind of divider would be needed to separate these parts?

Reviewer: I was thinking a divider for the benefit of users, not because of tests. Maybe we can separate the intro text and then combine them again in the docs repo?

Author: > Maybe we can separate the intro text and then combine them again in the docs repo?

Hmm I don't know to do this. As I understand it you can cobble together different Markdown files into one coherent page somehow.

Should I just put my JSON guide in a separate file then to start with?

Reviewer 2: Is json guide necessary at all? While renovate specifics like merging rules are really worth describing, overview of boolean and string looks like cs 101. Maybe I'm biased, but I think that renovate users for sure familar with json (or simple link to existing json overview would be enought)

Author: @rarkins Can you help me get unstuck here? Adding the divider didn't satisfy the tests, or it was the wrong kind of divider... 🙃
